# Contributing to MathLive

There are many ways you can get involved with MathLive. Contributing to an open
source project is fun and rewarding.

## Funding

If you are using MathLive in your project, encourage the business partners in
your organization to provide financial support of open source projects,
including MathLive. Contact [me](arno@arno.org) to discuss possible arrangments
which can run from short-term contracts for specific features or integration
support (I can invoice the work), to one-time or recurring donation to support
the work in general.

Funds go to general development, support, and infrastructure costs.

## Contributing Issues

If you're running into some problems using MathLive or something doesn't behave
the way you think it should, please file an issue in GitHub.

Before filing something, [have a look](https://github.com/arnog/mathlive/issues)
at the existing issues. It's better to avoid filing duplicates. You can add a
comment to an existing issue if you'd like.

To speed up the resolution of an issue, including a pointer to an executable
test case that demonstrates the issue, if applicable.

### Can I help fix a bug?

Sure! Have a look at the issue report, and make sure no one is already working
on it. If the issue is assigned to someone, they're on it! Otherwise, add a
comment in the issue indicating you'd like to work on resolving the issue and go
for it! See the [Contributor Guide](documentation/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE.md) for
coding guidelines.

## Contributing Test Cases

The `test/` folder contains test cases that are used to make sure that bugs are
not introduced as new features are added (regression).

Adding or updating test cases can be very helpful to improve MathLive's quality.
Submit an issue indicating what you'd like to work on, and a pull request when
you have it ready. Test cases should follow the TAP (Test Anything Protocol)
format.

## Contributing Ideas and Feature Requests

Use the [issue tracker](https://github.com/arnog/mathlive/issues) to submit
requests for new features. First, have a look at what might already be there,
and if you don't see anything that matches, write up a new issue.

If you do see something similar to your idea, comment on it or add a üëç.

## Contributing Code

Whether you have a fix for an issue, some improved test cases, or a brand new
feature, we welcome contributions in the form of pull requests. Once submitted,
your pull request will be reviewed and you will receive some feedback to make
sure that your pull request fits in with

- the roadmap for MathLive
- the architecture of the project
- the coding guidelines of the project

Once your pull request has been accepted, it will be merged into the master
branch.

Congratulations, you've become a MathLive contributor! Thanks for your help!
